So now that we sort of understand the
basics of less thans and greater thans and
attributes and tags and simple
elements and complex elements in XML,
it's important to understand how to
describe what is and isn't valid XML.
And we call this XML schema.
It's a schema for XML,
which is sort of the proper shape.
Schema kind of means proper shape.
And so imagine there are two applications,
and you're an airline company and
a hotel company.
And you write this code, and
you send data back and forth.
And it's all working.
And then one of you changes something.
And then it breaks.
Whose fault was it?
Well, was it like a a mistake in this one,
or did they introduce a new mistake?
And so
it's nice to be able to say that this XML,
this is the contract that
we're going to work together.
And if I break something or I change
something and our connection breaks, at
least you can check to see if what we're
sending back and forth meets the contract.
We call this "validation", right?
And so the idea is you don't
necessarily do this every time you,
it's rare that you do this every time
you send the data back and forth.
It's more like you do this at the time
where there might be an argument
as to whether the XML is valid or not.
So what you tend to be able to do is
if you take this schema contract and
you hand it to this
validation software and
you hand a XML document to the validator,
it'd be like, you're valid.
Or you're not valid.
So it takes two things, a potentially
valid or not valid document, and
a contract, and then looks at it and
says, does this meet the contract?
And so we'll talk about what it
takes to make these contracts.
So, here's a real bit of simple XML.
Now, it turns out the XML
schema itself is XML,
which means it's turtles all the way down.
So, here's a little bit of XML with
a person complex, person tag, and
a simple lastname, and
a age, and a dateborn, right?
And we can come up with a schema
that describes what is and
is not legitimate for
this particular thing.
You could say, hey,
look at that sample XML.
That's what we're going to send.
So you put the lastname, age,
and dateborn.
Do it that way. And
lots of times that's all they do.
They just sort of like
make up some sample stuff.
And programmer A and programmer B just
kind of do their thing, and away we go.
But, it's not the best way to do things.
So what we do is we have this contract.
And it is itself XML with this
xs: stuff, and
if you remember I talked about
complex types and simple types.
Complex types are those that
include other tags, and
simple types are things
that only include text.
And so this is basically saying
we're going to have a complex type, and
it's going to have a name of,
it's going to be person.
And then we're going to have like
a sequence of three tags.
And the first one's going to be name,
and it's going to be of type string.
The second one's going to be age, and
it's going to be of type integer.
And a third type is dateborn,
and it's of type date.
And so, you can see how, if for example,
somebody sent back like x here,
I mean, it does have a beginning and
an end tag.
But you could look at this
thing that says, no no no,
that second tag is supposed to be a-g-e,
so that is not right.
And that's what the validator would say.
And so it's just a way to
programmatically verify
that the XML meets the contract
that you've agreed to in advance.
Now it's not like you can't
use XML without a schema.
But it's often a way to formalize
a relationship between applications
in a nice way.
It turns out there's a number
of different schema languages.
These things all sort of came
out in the late 1980s,
early 1990s, and there was a lot of
sort of chaotic invention going on.
And we use this one schema that's
often called XSD, the XML schema from
the Worldwide Web Consortium, which is
kind of the more later of these things.
Because this is sort of like 1995, 94,
95 timeframe which, and it's actually,
probably the easiest one to understand.
You take a look at some of these things.
Go ahead and look at them.
They're all doable, but
they're kind of scary and harder to use and
certainly harder to read and
harder to write programs to validate.
So there's a couple of differences.
We're just going to stick with the easy
one and the one that's most common, and
it's often in a file suffix called xsd.
So if you download something and you unzip
it and you get this file called the xsd,
it is probably the schema for what you're
supposed to be sending back and forth.
And like I said before, we don't tend
to use the schema every time we send or
receive data.
We mostly use the schema
when we're arguing.
Say like you sent something and
blew me up,
and I'm going to run it through this schema.
And you fail, so
you got to go fix your side.
It's really whose side you're going to fix.
So this is the one we're going to do.
It's also called XSD because
the file names end in XSD,
and I said all that already,
so we'll just skip down here.
So, as I mentioned, you know,
there's a way to represent a complex type.
There's a way to represent a sequence, and
then a simple type is merely an element.
And then the interesting thing sort of
becomes, and this is the way we sort of
create sequences and nesting, and you can
have complex types within complex types.
So we are capturing the nesting and
the naming.
So that what is nested within what and
what the names of the tags are and
what the orders of the tags are.
So we're getting all of that.
And then the interesting thing becomes,
what are the types of the tags?
What are the legal types of tags?
And that turns out to be some
of the more interesting things.
And a way to sort of lock this
contract down very nicely.
Because you could basically say
this is a string, and this is a string,
and this is a string.
But if it's an age,
you want it to say something a little more
restrictive than it's a string, right?
And so we want to be able to
say more restrictive things.
Okay, so here's a little bit
more of a constraint, right,
where we're saying, okay,
this XML has got a complex element.
And now we're going to have a complex
type within that and then a sequence.
And the first thing is a full name,
and it's a string.
And minOccurs, these are attributes
of this element now, and maxOccurs.
So minOccurs says it must occur at
least this number of times, and
maxOccurs means it can occur no
more than those number of times.
So that says that valid
XML here has got to have,
always must have,
in effect it makes this required.
Some things are optional.
Here we have child_name,
and it's a string.
And minOccurs is 0,
which means it's optional,
which means it doesn't have to be there.
If it is there,
it's kind of there after full_name.
And then maxOccurs says
there are no more than 10.
But in this case we have 4 of them.
So, it all validates, and so this is good
valid XML for this bit of XML schema.
And so there's some other kinds of things,
right?
This string is just a random string.
That's a string.
The date starts with a four-digit year,
dash, two-digit month, dash, day.
Different parts of the world
represent dates differently.
Computers kind of prefer to represent
them in this year, month,
day format, and the reason is,
is because they sort naturally, right?
So, the year is the biggest thing, and so
it sorts like numbers or even strings as
long as the string length is the same.
So if you are in a date time,
it's date followed
by the capital T, followed by hours,
minutes, and seconds.
And then the last little
thing here is the time zone.
And Z stands for UTC or GMT,
whatever time it is in London basically.
So, that's another thing
that computers tend to do.
When you're starting to
exchange data between computers
that might be anywhere in the world,
the current time?
You really don't want to think about the
time zone, especially when you're thinking
about things like Eastern Standard Time,
and Eastern Daylight Time.
And, I don't know
They even a long time ago made a watch
that all the watches were set
to the Greenwich Mean Time.
So all the people around the world
would have the same concept of time.
It was a cool hipster idea.
But, many, many,
many years ago it was a good idea.
They don't do it anymore.
But, you can have a decimal number like
99.50, which means letters aren't allowed.
And so, and then there's an integer,
which now you don't even allow periods or
fractional parts.
So, you can sort of lock these things
down in your XML schema contract.
And so I already mentioned the time
format, which is the four digit,
two digit.
You don't call this -5-.
You want to be able to sort this thing.
And if you look at this from sort of
most significant to least significant,
the year, month, day,
hours, minutes, seconds.
And you put the zeroes in.
That's what we computer nerds like to do,
put the zeroes in.
It's a computer thing.
And the exact same number
of columns all the time.
And then the whole thing, if they
are all this long, they sort naturally.
The sort is natural.
So, 2010-01-05 da da da,
well that's going to sort the right way.
So the later date is going to sort later.
So you make them all the same length,
adding zeros where necessary.
And you go year, month, day,
hour, minute, second.
And Z, Zulu time zone,
universal time.
This whole format that we're talking
about is the ISO 8601 format.
And if you're ever doing dates inside
of a computer, ever, just use this.
Don't mess around.
Don't mess around with time zones,
unless, of course,
you're displaying them to users.
So what you do is we tend to store,
internally, times and
dates in Greenwich Mean Time or UTC,
and then we convert them just at
the moment that we show them to people.
Not that we're building web
applications or anything,
but that's how we tend to
do it inside of computers.
So this is just another schema that's
going to demonstrate sort of one or
two new things.
So they start looking
really crazy after a while,
but go look them up on Wikipedia or
whatever, and figure out what it is.
But here we have an element.
Get my pencil back.
The outer element is named Address, and
then within that we have a Recipient,
a House, a Street, a Town.
These are all strings, not too bad,
and then a County which is optional.
MinOccurs of 0, which is really saying
this thing we don't need a County value.
And a PostCode which is required,
and it's of type string.
But then we have this element of Country.
But we basically are going to
put a restriction on it.
We say look, this is indeed a string.
The base of this is a string, but it's got
to be one of these five strings, right?
FR, DE, ES, UK, and US.
So apparently those are all of
the countries in the world,
at least all that matter on this screen
because my screen is only so high.
And so this is a way for you to say,
hey, this is part of the contract.
Yes, it's a string.
It's two characters long, and
there's only five possible values for
this that are legitimate.
And so, again, you can get very
specific in these contracts.
And so now, if we sort of take
a look at this, this is legit,
because it matches that country code.
And the rest of it's legit as well, okay?
So it's just something, we're not
going to spend too much time with it.
I just sort of want you to understand
roughly about these contracts and
maybe look at a few of them,
but not really make them.
It's pretty sophisticated.
Here's just another example of a schema
that demonstrates a few other things.
That's a string,
shiporder's the outer key.
This is another element that has a name,
address, city, county.
That's all pretty straightforward.
Here is an item.
The maxOccurs is unbounded.
Now, that's a new thing.
That says, we don't care how many.
It's not like ten.
The maximum is however many
of these things you want. Right?
And then the other thing that's sort of
different in here is the fact that this is
a positive integer instead
of just an integer.
So, you could say this is a number or
this is a positive number, okay?
And so, there you go.
And this one says that's required.
So, you just have to
construct these things, and
they are the way that we construct
contracts about what XML.
So now we've learned a bit about XML and
XML schema.
Now we're going to talk about what would you
do with XML if you found XML in Python,
and we'll do that next.